Dear Prof. Dr. Harting,

This manuscript has been reviewed by our referees. A critique from the
reports appears below. Based on this we judge that the work probably
warrants publication in some form, but does not meet the Physical
Review Letters criteria of impact, innovation, and interest.

The paper, with revision as appropriate, might be suitable for
publication in one of the topical Physical Review journals or Physical
Review Research. The editors of that journal will make the decision on
publication, and may seek further review. However, our complete file
is available.

In choosing the journal, please be aware that Physical Review Research
is a fully open access publication and, thus, article publication
charges would apply.

If you transfer this manuscript, be sure to include the usual response
to all referee comments and a summary of revisions made.

Yours sincerely,

Saad E. Hebboul
Associate Editor
Physical Review Letters
Email: prl@aps.org
https://journals.aps.org/prl/
Follow us on Twitter @PhysRevLett

NEWS FROM THE PHYSICAL REVIEW JOURNALS

PRX Energy is now open for submissions
https://go.aps.org/3lNdIqK

P.S. For future reference, your paper is also too long for a Letter;
    see appended form.


WORD COUNT

  The guidelines used to determine the word count can be found at
  http://journals.aps.org/authors/length-guide


 Figure   Aspect Ratio   Wide?   Word Equivalent
    1         1.73         No        106
    2         1.46         No        122
    3         1.46         No        122
    4         1.29         No        136
    5         1.38         No        128

WORD COUNT SUMMARY
   Note: Text word count excludes title, abstract, byline, PACS,
         receipt date, acknowledgments, and references.

             Text word count   2960
       Equations word equiv.    208
         Figures word equiv.    614
          Tables word equiv.      0
                             ------
                      TOTAL    3782 (Maximum length is 3750)

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of Referee A -- LM17723/Zitz
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This manuscript describes some numerical simulations and theory on the
dewetting of surfaces with temporally changing wettability. The
subject is of interest, but I am not convinced this manuscript
describes the type of progress that merits publication in PRL. Besides
that, I am unable to follow most of the arguments made with respect to
the disjoining pressure. For me, one needs to integrate the disjoining
pressure to arrive at an effective interface potential, and I do not
really know how to go from the effective interface potential to the
surface tension. The equation (3) therefore merits much more
discussion. The same holds for the time scale. The viscous time scale
is well defined, but necessitates a length scale in addition to the
capillary velocity. It is unclear why the authors choose the length
scale that they use in the paper. Subsequently, they replace the
surface tension by a complicated partial derivative of the disjoining
pressure; here the same remark as above holds. Incidentally, for a
'normal' fluid such as water, the capillary velocity is ~70m/s, so
that very, very rapidly the fluid inertia becomes important. This is
indeed what one usually observes for the formation or coalescence of
drops, so that at the very least this should be discussed and the
Reynolds number calculated.

In addition, there is a lot of old literature that relates the
dewetting to the disjoining pressure, and shows that the nucleation of
a hole in a wetting film is much more difficult than the nucleation of
such a wetting film; there are experiments on this by Rutledge and
Taborek, theory by Schick and Taborek and Bausch, Blossey and Indekeu.

The explanations also lack a discussion on time, length, and energy
scales. I have no clue what the values mean ' the numerical values, in
LB units, are set to \gamma= 0.01 and â€€\mu = 1/6. What is the
disjoining pressure due to? Van der Waals forces? How thick is the
precursor film, and why should the disjoining pressure be zero there?
Is there any comparison with experiments possible/feasible?

In summary, this is perhaps an interesting manuscript, but it is for
the moment not suitable for PRL. Perhaps it could be made suitable by
a thorough revision.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of Referee B -- LM17723/Zitz
----------------------------------------------------------------------

In this manuscript the authors study the dewetting patterns of a
substrate whose wetting properties are space and time modulated by a
sinusoidal wave. This is a very relevant topic with a large number of
potential applications. A large body of work has been done on the
morphology of structured patterns but far less work has been done for
the case where the pattern properties are time dependent. The work is
carried out with expertise and the conclusions are interesting, so I
have currently a favorable opinion on this work. However, a number of
important issues need to be clarified before the paper can be
accepted.

Model:

My major concern relates the model used in the study. Particularly, I
see two important issues that need clarification:

i. The model disjoining pressure, Eq. 3 with a tail decaying as the
inverse squared power seems odd. I am more familiar with the expected
van der Waals tail with a decay as the inverse cube power. Is there
any reason for this choice? ii. The second major concern refers to the
choice of slip length. The authors study a fluid-substrate model that
has a thin film equilibrium thickness of 0.07 length units, but the
slip length is one unit, hence about 10 times larger than the
equilibrium film thickness. This seems unexpected, in view of the
small contact angle chosen for the system. Could the authors justify
this choice?

A number of other issues:

1. The relevance of the manuscript relies on the significance of the
substrate's switchable properties. Particularly, it is assumed that
the wetting properties can be modulated on space but also on time. The
authors have mentioned in the introduction that this can be
potentially done. However, it would be desirable that the authors
relate their model of switchable substrate with some specific
experimental realization, where the actual length and time scales are
mentioned.

2. An important parameter in the problem is the wave-vector q0, which
sets the correlation length in the problem. The authors should state
what the actual value is relative to either the average film height,
of the wave-length of modulations. Is there any reason to give the
wave-length of modulations in units of the system size, i.e., are the
results subject to finite size effects? Otherwise it appears more
meaningful to describe the modulations in units of q0 or the
equilibrium film thickness.

3. The thin film equation relies on a local approximation for the
interface potential and disjoining pressure. Notice that to first
order in non-local effects, the surface tension entering the thin film
equation adopts a film thickness dependence which could potentially
affect the dynamics. Particularly, as far as the parallel correlation
length q0 is referred, the non-local effects provide an upper bound
equal to the inverse bulk correlation length. This could be a
significant effect in polymer thin films (c.f. Benet et al. jpc-c 118,
22079, 2014 and the related discussion on dynamical effects Pahlavan
et al., jfm, 845, 642, 2018).

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of Referee C -- LM17723/Zitz
----------------------------------------------------------------------

I have read the manuscript LM17723 by Zitz, Scagliarini, and Harting.
The manuscript addresses the behavior of a dewetting liquid film on a
substrate where the contact angle varies in time and is non-uniform;
specifically, it is characterized by a checkerboard pattern. The
authors study the problem numerically and they also provide a number
of scaling results, and their main finding is the formation of
transient rivulets under suitable conditions.

The study seems scientifically sound, the results are credible, and
the manuscript is clearly written. The topic may be potentially
relevant for microfluidic and related applications journals, e.g.,
Physical Review E or Physical Review Fluids. However, I feel that the
results presented lack a sufficient breadth and impact so as to
warrant publication in Physical Review Letters - provided that one has
a suitable substrate, I do not see how would the transport of a fluid
by way of transient rivulets surpass the transport by way of droplets
in practice - and thus I cannot recommend the manuscript for
publication.

The core of the manuscript is a numerical study which includes a
number of model parameters and specific choices of their values, say
\theta_0, \delta\theta, \delta, h_0, the square pattern itself, the
orientation of the velocity of the contact angle, etc. Naturally,
these choices need to be made, but drawing conclusions from just a few
sets is, in my opinion, premature. For example, I imagine that the
rivulets will not form if \delta\theta were too small, or too small
relative to \theta_0. The authors focused on the importance of the
speed of the pattern and on its wavelength but they left most other
parameters fixed to a single value, the reasons for their choice being
unclear.

Also unclear is how does the substrate patterning scale 2\pi/q_\theta
compare with the scale of homogeneous dewetting 2\pi/q_0. This is an
important question because the behavior of the film will likely depend
very much on the ratio of these two scales. I tried hard to understand
whether the different cases of \lambda discussed in the paper agree
with 2\pi/q_0 but I was unable to do so. How would the film behave if
the dynamics of the film were controlled primarily by spinodal
dewetting and not by the contact-angle pattern? At the same time, if
the two characteristic lengthscales (= that of the spinodal dewetting
and that of the patterned substrate) are suitably synchronized,
perhaps rivulets can be rendered permanent rather than transient? Or
is the dewetting, once initiated, immanently irreversible even for a
time-dependent contact-angle pattern like the one studied in LM17723?

Many of the numerical results are supported by scaling estimates. I
like these arguments, but the agreement is hardly convincing. For
example, the linear and the square scaling laws in Fig. 2 each cover a
small range (much less than a tenfold variation) and so it is hard to
see whether they really apply. The same goes for the rivulet lifetime
in Fig. 5 where the trend is OK but most likely a scaling law
different from log(v\theta) would do as well in the range of \tau_riv
covered by the numerical data.


------------------------------------------------------
PRL Acceptance Criteria
-----------------------------------------------------

Submitted manuscripts should substantially advance fundamental or applied physical science by meeting one or more of the following criteria:

  - Open a new research area, or a new avenue within an established area.   X
  - Solve, or make essential steps towards solving, a critical problem.
  - Introduce techniques or methods with significant impact.                X
  - Be of unusual intrinsic interest to PRL's broad audience.              (X)

